1.1	From your home directory check what groups you are a part of 

id 


1.2 From your home directory create a Day5 directory, and change your working directory to that Day5 directory. Create a new file called test1 in your Day5 directory.
Please write your command for making your test1 file in the space below.

touch test1


1.3 From your Day5 directory, check the base permissions of test1. Write the command you used in the space below. 


ls -l



1.4 From your Day5 directory add execute permission to the user and add write permission to others on test1 

chmod 600 test1



1.5 From your Day5 directory change the permission of test1 to read only for user, group, and others 

chmod a=r test1


1.6 From your Day5 directory change the permission of test1 to full control to user, read and execute to group and read and execute to others using mode values

chmod 755 test1



1.7 Display the setting for the default file permission when creating a new file. Write the command you used in the space below.

umask 

1.8 Switch to the root user without logging out of your account. Write the command you used in the space below.

sudo -i 



1.9 Exit out of the root user and return to the user. Write the command you used in the space below.

exit 



1.10 From your Day5 directory, display the content of the file "/etc/ppp/chap-secrets" without switching to the root user shell. (Use an absolute path to the file) Write the command you used in the space below.

sudo less /etc/ppp/chap-secrets



1.11 From your Day5 directory, change the owner and group of the test1 file to the root user (Do not switch to a root shell)


sudo chown root: test1


















2.1 Display all processes started from the current terminal

ps


2.2 Display all processes running in the system including ones started by other users 

ps x


2.3 Start the process xeyes in the foreground (to start xeyes type xeyes) 

xeyes 


2.4 Suspend xeyes (What keystrokes did you use?)

Ctrl z


2.5 List the suspended and background jobs. Write the command you used in the space below.

jobs



2.6 Bring xeyes to the foreground. Write the command you used in the space below. 

fg %1




2.7 Suspend xeyes again. Then move xeyes to the background. Write the command you used to send xeyes to the background in the space below. 

bg %1







2.8 Fill in the blank below to complete the command to send the absolute kill signal to xeyes.
kill ____ <pid>
In the space below, enter the command option to send the absolute kill signal.  Do not include kill or <pid> in your response.

9

2.9 Start 3 xeyes instances in the background. In the space below write how you started one instance of xeyes in the background 

xeyes & 



2.10 Kill all xeyes you started in the above step in one command without any options.

killall xeyes


2.11 Display a dynamic real-time view of the processes running on the system. Write the command you used in the space provided below.

top



2.12 Display the processes running on the system in a tree structure. Write the command you used in the space provided below.

pstree





